International Program License Agreement


Part 1 - General Terms

PLEASE READ THIS AGREEMENT CAREFULLY BEFORE USING THE PROGRAM. 
IBM WILL LICENSE THE PROGRAM TO YOU ONLY IF YOU FIRST ACCEPT 
THE TERMS OF THIS AGREEMENT. BY USING THE PROGRAM YOU AGREE 
TO THESE TERMS. IF YOU DO NOT AGREE TO THE TERMS OF THIS 
AGREEMENT, PROMPTLY RETURN THE UNUSED PROGRAM TO THE PARTY 
(EITHER IBM OR ITS RESELLER) FROM WHOM YOU ACQUIRED IT TO RECEIVE 
A REFUND OF THE AMOUNT YOU PAID.

The Program is owned by International Business Machines Corporation or one of 
its subsidiaries (IBM) or an IBM supplier, and is copyrighted and licensed, not 
sold.

The term "Program" means the original program and all whole or partial copies of 
it. A Program consists of machine-readable instructions, its components, data, 
audio-visual content (such as images, text, recordings, or pictures), and 
related licensed materials.

This Agreement includes Part 1 - General Terms, Part 2 - Country-unique Terms, 
and "License Information" and is the complete agreement regarding the use of 
this Program, and replaces any prior oral or written communications between you 
and IBM. The terms of Part 2 and License Information may replace or modify those 
of Part 1.


1. License

Use of the Program

IBM grants you a nonexclusive license to use the Program.

You may 1) use the Program to the extent of authorizations you have acquired and 
2) make and install copies to support the level of use authorized, providing you 
reproduce the copyright notice and any other legends of ownership on each copy, 
or partial copy, of the Program.

If you acquire this Program as a program upgrade, your authorization to use the 
Program from which you upgraded is terminated.

You will ensure that anyone who uses the Program does so only in compliance with 
the terms of this Agreement.

You may not 1) use, copy, modify, or distribute the Program except as provided 
in this Agreement; 2) reverse assemble, reverse compile, or otherwise translate 
the Program except as specifically permitted by law without the possibility of 
contractual waiver; or 3) sublicense, rent, or lease the Program.

Transfer of Rights and Obligations

You may transfer all your license rights and obligations under a Proof of 
Entitlement for the Program to another party by transferring the Proof of 
Entitlement and a copy of this Agreement and all documentation. The transfer of 
your license rights and obligations terminates your authorization to use the 
Program under the Proof of Entitlement.


2. Proof of Entitlement

The Proof of Entitlement for this Program is evidence of your authorization to 
use this Program and of your eligibility for warranty services, future upgrade 
program prices (if announced), and potential special or promotional 
opportunities.


3. Charges and Taxes

IBM defines use for the Program for charging purposes and specifies it in the 
Proof of Entitlement. Charges are based on extent of use authorized. If you wish 
to increase the extent of use, notify IBM or its reseller and pay any applicable 
charges. IBM does not give refunds or credits for charges already due or paid.

If any authority imposes a duty, tax, levy or fee, excluding those based on 
IBM's net income, upon the Program supplied by IBM under this Agreement, then 
you agree to pay that amount as IBM specifies or supply exemption documentation.


4. Limited Warranty

IBM warrants that when the Program is used in the specified operating 
environment it will conform to its specifications. IBM does not warrant 
uninterrupted or error-free operation of the Program or that we will correct all 
Program defects. You are responsible for the results obtained from the use of 
the Program. The warranty period for the Program expires when its Program 
services are no longer available. The License Information specifies the duration 
of Program services.

During the warranty period warranty service is provided without charge for the 
unmodified portion of the Program through defect-related Program services. 
Program services are available for at least one year following the Program's 
general availability. Therefore, the duration of warranty service depends on 
when you obtain your license. If the Program does not function as warranted 
during the first year after you obtain your license and IBM is unable to resolve 
the problem by providing a correction, restriction, or bypass, you may return 
the Program to the party (either IBM or its reseller) from whom you acquired it 
and receive a refund in the amount you paid for it. To be eligible, you must 
have acquired the Program while Program services (regardless of the remaining 
duration) were available for it.

THESE WARRANTIES ARE YOUR EXCLUSIVE WARRANTIES AND REPLACE ALL OTHER WARRANTIES 
OR CONDITIONS, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED 
WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR 
PURPOSE.

These warranties give you specific legal rights, and you may also have other 
rights which vary from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. Some jurisdictions do not 
allow the exclusion or limitation of implied warranties, so the above exclusion 
or limitation may not apply to you. In that event such warranties are limited in 
duration to the warranty period. No warranties apply after that period.


5. Limitation of Liability

Circumstances may arise where, because of a default on IBM's part or other 
liability, you are entitled to recover damages from IBM. In each such instance, 
regardless of the basis on which you may be entitled to claim damages from IBM, 
(including fundamental breach, negligence, misrepresentation, or other contract 
or tort claim), IBM is liable for no more than 1) damages for bodily injury 
(including death) and damage to real property and tangible personal property and 
2) the amount of any other actual direct damages up to the greater of U.S. 
$100,000 (or equivalent in your local currency) or the charges for the Program 
that is the subject of the claim.

IBM WILL NOT BE LIABLE FOR ANY SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL, OR INDIRECT DAMAGES OR FOR 
ANY ECONOMIC CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING LOST PROFITS OR SAVINGS), EVEN IF 
IBM, OR ITS RESELLER, HAS BEEN ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES. SOME 
JURISDICTIONS DO NOT ALLOW THE EXCLUSION OR LIMITATION OF INCIDENTAL OR 
CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES, SO THE ABOVE LIMITATION OR EXCLUSION MAY NOT APPLY TO 
YOU.

IBM will not be liable for 1) loss of, or damage to, your records or data or 2) 
any damages claimed by you based on any third party claim.

This limitation of liability also applies to any developer of a Program supplied 
to IBM. It is the maximum for which IBM and its suppliers are collectively 
responsible.


6. General

Nothing in this Agreement affects any statutory rights of consumers that cannot 
be waived or limited by contract.

IBM may terminate your license if you fail to comply with the terms of this 
Agreement. If IBM does so, your authorization to use the Program is also 
terminated.

You agree to comply with applicable export laws and regulations.

Neither you nor IBM will bring a legal action under this Agreement more than two 
years after the cause of action arose unless otherwise provided by local law 
without the possibility of contractual waiver or limitation.

Neither you nor IBM is responsible for failure to fulfill any obligations due to 
causes beyond its control.

The laws of the country in which you acquire the Program govern this Agreement, 
except 1) in Australia, the laws of the State or Territory in which the 
transaction is performed govern this Agreement; 2) in Albania, Armenia, Belarus, 
Bosnia/Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Croatia, Czech Republic, Georgia, Hungary, 
Kazakhstan, Kirghizia, Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia (FYROM), Moldova, 
Poland, Romania, Russia, Slovak Republic, Slovenia, Ukraine, and Federal 
Republic of Yugoslavia, the laws of Austria govern this Agreement; 3) in the 
United Kingdom, all disputes relating to this Agreement will be governed by 
English Law and will be submitted to the exclusive jurisdiction of the English 
courts; 4) in Canada, the laws in the Province of Ontario govern this Agreement; 
and 5) in the United States and Puerto Rico, and People's Republic of China, the 
laws of the State of New York govern this Agreement.



Part 2 - Country-unique Terms


AUSTRALIA:

Limited Warranty (Section 4):

The following paragraph is added to this Section:

The warranties specified in this Section are in addition to any rights you may 
have under the Trade Practices Act 1974 or other legislation and are only 
limited to the extent permitted by the applicable legislation.

Limitation of Liability (Section 5):

The following paragraph is added to this Section:

Where IBM is in breach of a condition or warranty implied by the Trade Practices 
Act 1974, IBM's liability is limited to the repair or replacement of the goods, 
or the supply of equivalent goods. Where that condition or warranty relates to 
right to sell, quiet possession or clear title, or the goods are of a kind 
ordinarily acquired for personal, domestic or household use or consumption, then 
none of the limitations in this paragraph apply.


EGYPT:

Limitation of Liability (Section 5):

The following replaces item 2 in the first paragraph of this Section:

2) as to any other actual direct damages, IBM's liability will be limited to the 
total amount you paid for the Program that is the subject of the claim.


FRANCE :

Limitation of Liability (Section 5):

The following replaces the second sentence in the first paragraph of this 
Section:

In such instances, regardless of the basis on which you are entitled to claim 
damages from IBM, IBM is liable for no more than 1) damages for bodily injury 
(including death) and damage to real property and tangible personal property; 
and 2) the amount of any other actual direct damages up to the greater of a) 
U.S. $100,000 (or equivalent in local currency) or b) the charges for the 
Program which is the subject of the claim.


GERMANY:

Limited Warranty (Section 4):

The following paragraphs are added to this Section:

The minimum warranty period for Programs is six months.

In case a Program is delivered without Specifications, we will only warrant that 
the Program information correctly describes the Program and that the Program can 
be used according to the Program information. You have to check the usability 
according to the Program information within the "money-back guaranty" period.

The following replaces the first sentence of the first paragraph of this 
Section:

The warranty for an IBM Program covers the functionality of the Program for its 
normal use and the Program's conformity to its Specifications.

Limitation of Liability (Section 5):

The following paragraph is added to the Section:

The limitations and exclusions specified in the Agreement will not apply to 
damages caused by IBM with fraud or gross negligence, and for express warranty.

In item 2, replace "U.S. $100,000" with "DEM 1.000.000".

The following sentence is added to the end of item 2 of the first paragraph:

IBM's liability under this item is limited to the violation of essential 
contractual terms in cases of ordinary negligence.


INDIA:

Limitation of Liability (Section 5):

The following replaces items 1 and 2 in the first paragraph:

1) liability for bodily injury (including death) or damage to real property and 
tangible personal property will be limited to that caused by IBM's negligence; 
and 2) as to any other actual damage arising in any situation involving 
nonperformance by IBM pursuant to, or in any way related to the subject of this 
Agreement, IBM's liability will be limited to the charge paid by you for the 
individual Program that is the subject of the claim.

General (Section 6):

The following replaces the fourth paragraph of this Section:

If no suit or other legal action is brought, within two years after the cause of 
action arose, in respect of any claim that either party may have against the 
other, the rights of the concerned party in respect of such claim will be 
forfeited and the other party will stand released from its obligations in 
respect of such claim.


IRELAND:

Limited Warranty (Section 4):

The following paragraph is added to this Section:

Except as expressly provided in these terms and conditions, all statutory 
conditions, including all warranties implied, but without prejudice to the 
generality of the foregoing, all warranties implied by the Sale of Goods Act 
1893 or the Sale of Goods and Supply of Services Act 1980 are hereby excluded.

Limitation of Liability (Section 5):

The following replaces items 1 and 2 in the first paragraph of this Section:

1) death or personal injury or physical damage to your real property solely 
caused by IBM's negligence; and 2) the amount of any other actual direct 
damages, up to the greater of Irish Pounds 75,000 in respect of Programs or 125 
percent of the charges for the Program that is the subject of the claim or which 
otherwise gives rise to the claim.

The following paragraph is added at the end of this Section:

IBM's entire liability and your sole remedy, whether in contract or in tort, in 
respect of any default will be limited to damages.


ITALY:

Limitation of Liability (Section 5):

The following replaces the second sentence in the first paragraph:

In each such instance unless otherwise provided by mandatory law, IBM is liable 
for no more than damages for bodily injury (including death) and damage to real 
property and tangible personal property and 2) as to any other actual damage 
arising in all situations involving non-performance by IBM pursuant to, or in 
any way related to the subject matter of this Agreement, IBM's liability, will 
be limited to the total amount you paid for the Program that is the subject of 
the claim.


NEW ZEALAND:

Limited Warranty (Section 4):

The following paragraph is added to this Section:

The warranties specified in this Section are in addition to any rights you may 
have under the Consumer Guarantees Act 1993 or other legislation which cannot be 
excluded or limited. The Consumer Guarantees Act 1993 will not apply in respect 
of any goods or services which IBM provides, if you require the goods or 
services for the purposes of a business as defined in that Act.

Limitation of Liability (Section 5):

The following paragraph is added to this Section:

Where Programs are not acquired for the purposes of a business as defined in the 
Consumer Guarantees Act 1993, the limitations in this Section are subject to the 
limitations in that Act.


PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA:

Charges (Section 3):

The following paragraph is added to the Section:

All banking charges incurred in the People's Republic of China will be borne by 
you and those incurred outside the People's Republic of China will be borne by 
IBM.


UNITED KINGDOM:

Limitation of Liability (Section 5):

The following replaces items 1 and 2 in the first paragraph of this Section:

1) death or personal injury or physical damage to your real property solely 
caused by IBM's negligence; 2) the amount of any other actual direct damages, up 
to the greater of Pounds Sterling 75,000 in respect of Programs or 125 percent 
of the charges for the Program that is the subject of the claim or which 
otherwise gives rise to the claim.

The following item is added:

3) breach of IBM's obligations implied by Section 12 of the Sale of Goods Act 
1979 or Section 2 of the Supply of Goods and Services Act 1982.

The following paragraph is added at the end of this Section:

IBM's entire liability and your sole remedy, whether in contract or in tort, in 
respect of any default will be limited to damages.


Z125-3301-10 (10/97)


LICENSE INFORMATION

The Programs listed below are licensed under the following terms and conditions 
in addition to those of the International Program License Agreement.

Program Name:  IBM ViaVoice TTS SDK for Windows
Program Number:  na
Guarantee:  1
Authorization for Use on Home/Portable Computer:  1
Program Services End Date:  2002/01/31
Y2K Readiness:  1

EXPLANATIONS OF TERMS:

Guarantee:
The Program has a money-back guarantee.  If for any reason you are unsatisfied 
with the Program, you may return it to the party (either IBM or its resellers) 
from whom you acquired it, to receive a refund of the amount you paid.
"1" means that this Program has a 30 day money-back guarantee.
"2" means that this Program has a 2 month money-back guarantee.

Authorization for Use on Home/Portable Computer:
"1" means that the Program may be stored on the primary machine and another 
machine, provided that the Program is not in active use on both machines at the 
same time.
"2" means that you may not copy and use this Program on another computer without  
paying additional license fees.

Program Services End Date:
The Program is warranted and program services will be available until the end 
date specified above.

Year 2000 Readiness:
"1" means that this Program does not have date dependencies and is therefore 
Year 2000 ready.
"2" means that this Program, when used in accordance with its associated 
documentation, is capable of correctly processing, providing and/or receiving 
date data within and between the twentieth and twenty-first centuries, provided 
that all products (for example, hardware, software, and firmware) used with this 
IBM Program properly exchange accurate date data with it.

Specified Operating Environment

The Program Specifications and Specified Operating Environment information may 
be found in documentation accompanying the Program such as  the 
Installation/Users  Guide.

Redistribution Information                             
                                                                      
The files/modules listed below or located in the directory named below, may be 
copied onto your media, in object code only,  when your application is dependent 
upon them, subject to the following terms and conditions.

You agree:

1) that copies of these modules are provided 'AS IS'.  You are responsible for 
all technical assistance for your application;
2) to indemnify IBM from and against any third party claim arising out of the 
use or distribution of your  application;
3) not to use IBM's name or trademarks in connection with the marketing of your 
applications without IBM's prior written consent;
4) to prohibit the recipient from copying (except for backup purposes), reverse 
assembling, reverse compiling, or otherwise translating the application; and
5) not to use the same path name as the original files/modules.

1  BROCKLEE.ACS
2  COMPUTER.ACS
3  WOODROW.ACS
 
Your application containing a copy of the above referenced files/modules must be 
labeled as follows:

"CONTAINS

IBM ViaVoice TTS SDK for Windows

Runtime Modules
(c) Copyright IBM Corporation 1996-2000
All Rights Reserved"

Non-IBM Programs

The following Programs are non-IBM Programs and are subject to the terms and 
conditions of the license agreement accompanying the Programs:

Microsoft Agents
To obtain rights to redistribute any portion of Microsoft Agent you will need to 
obtain such rights by separate agreement with Microsoft which is available via 
the ViaVoice Developer's Corner at http://www.ibm.com/software/speech/dev.  You 
are not authorized to distribute the Microsoft  agent or the Documentation 
Sources.

U.S. Government Users Restricted Rights

U.S. Government Users Restricted Rights - Use, duplication, or disclosure 
restricted by the GSA ADP Schedule Contract with the IBM Corporation.

D/N:  RMII-4JRP6U
P/N:  RMII-4JRP6U

